Come back in this video I will show you how to get from one scene to another.
So let's create a new scene.
We can do that in multiple ways for example create and scene or we could duplicate our main scene and
well let's go ahead and simply create a new scene.
So create a scene and I'm going to call that level 1.
So now we get from Main to for example Level 1 let's click on level 1 and save the current scene that
we are at.
And now you can see in this scene there is nothing.
So the only thing that I'm going to add to our level one scene is a UI and UI which I call text which
is the text and it's just going to say Level 2.
And I'm going to center that and position it in the center.
Now I'm going to add a little button here as well.
I button and the text of the button is going to say move to main screen and that's it.
So what I want to do is I want to get from this scene to the main scene and from the main scene I want
to get to the level 1 scene.
So set a safe level 1 the scene control us and then go to your main scene.
And now this button here what it should do is move us to level 1 code to level 1.
All right.
Now the button already has a behavior.
So this one has a behavior already.
So let's change that.
Let's go to Buckton behavior.
And what I want to do here is I want to change the on button pressed here.
I don't want to set the text of our score.
I want to move from one scene to another so I can get rid of this text and I can get rid of this line
as well.
And while we're at it we can also get rid of unity engine because we're not using it right now.
While I will need however is the scene manager which allows us to move from one scene to another.
So let's go ahead and use the unity engine.
Scene management.
And that one contains the scene manager because only if you add this namespace you'll be you'll be able
to use a scene manager.
So let's open up the scene manager and that scene manager has multiple different methods and the one
that is important for us currently is the loud scene method.
What that will do is it will allow us to move from one scene to another.
And as you can see it has multiple overloads it has an entire scene build index.
It has a string scene name and it also has some other options.
For example this load's scene mode argument we're just going to use the one where we can simply add
the index of the scene that we want to go to.
So let's say I want to go to scene 1 or I could go to scene level 1.
So let's save that.
Let's have a look if that's the right name actually is level without empty space 1.
So let's make sure that this is the right name would save that.
And now whenever somebody presses on this button he should go from Main to level 1.
So let's test that.
He will actually run into an arrow first but let's see what happens.
So I run around it and I press on go to Level 1 and I get a an arrow here that says stop the game see
Level 1 cannot be loaded because it has not been added to the build settings or the built bundle.
And if ever if you ever see this error there is one very simple solution.
You go to File build settings and in here you add the scenes that you want to have in there.
So you add scene Maine and you add scene level 1.
Now you can close that up by the way what you should memorize is to zero in this one so mine is zero
and Level 1 is 1.
Actually let's make sure that it's like that.
So here they index the scene index.
That's this number here at the right hand side.
So now let's close it and let's run the code again and see if we can move from scene from our main scene
to our level once in by way here on the right hand side you can see that we are currently in Maine.
So let's click on the button and now you can see we are in the scene level one at the same time.
You see that the text has changed and now it's moved to main scene so this is a different scene that
we are at.
And you can use that to for example move from from the start screen where the player can simply start
the game where you can see the high score and maybe change the settings to the game scene itself or
to a specific level.
You could even build for example 20 different buttons here and button one is level 1 button to level
2 and so forth.
So now if we press move to main scene of course nothing happens.
So for us a little challenge please go ahead and try to add the functionality to our level 1 scene so
that you can move from this scene to our main scene so positively and try that all right I hope you
try it.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And there are multiple different ways.
For example you could create a very new script and you could assign that script to your button and then
you could move from this green to another screen.
But I'm going to show you a cleaner way.
Let's say so let's go to button behavior.
And now we go ahead and change that from one button press which is the name that I have just used in
order for you to see that this was called when we press the button.
But I actually want to have a method that has a better name which explains a bit better what should
happen.
So the method should not be called on button pressed this time.
But move to scene.
So now this method will move from one scene to another.
And as an argument I'm going to add an integer.
I'm going to call scene ID.
And now we load the scene and we don't load level 1 but what we do is we load the scene Id right.
And now what we can do is we can add that to our button let's add the button behavior to our button
object.
So script button behavior.
And now we can add an On Click event here listing.
Next we need to direct the button behavior in here so you can see it has been added.
Now we can choose the pattern behavior
and they're move to scene.
Now expect an int which is this number here.
So it's currently number 0 which is in fact the scene that we want to go to.
So if we go to build settings we can see the main scene has the index 0 seen index 0 which means that
it's the right scene.
All right.
So let's go ahead and go to our main scene as well in here.
We have our canvas and the button and now the button is missing the on button pressing at that.
Of course he's missing it because it doesn't exist anymore I changed the name of it.
So whenever you do that you have to be super careful because in here it has not been changed.
So what I'm doing now is I'm choosing to move to scene and here I enter one because our level 1 scene
has the index of one.
So now I'm going to move from zero from zero which is our main scene to scene one which is our level
1 scene.
So let's test that.
Now let's go to Level 1.
Let's press on it.
You can see we are in our Level 1 scene.
Now let's press move to main scene and we see we go back to our level one scene.
All right so now you have seen how you can use methods and buttons in order to move from one scene to
another.
Of course you can call the scene manager.
So this code here at any point you could.
Example for example say as soon as the player has lost or as soon as the player has died please load
the game overseen or as soon as the player has reached the end of this level go to the next level.
So that could be done dynamically and not by user input as it is currently with the buttons.
But I just wanted to show you how it's possible to do it via via buttons.
That's it for buttons and their click events and also for moving from scene to scene be.